1. Less stress 
When you’re mentally strong, you’re less stressed by the things that happen in life — large or small. You see adversity as an opportunity to grow. Even when big things happen, you’re able to reframe them and trust that you’ll get through them. After all, you’ve gotten through big things before.

Managing your stress is one of the most effective ways to improve your overall well-being. Lower stress levels are associated with lower risk of depression, anxiety, and several physical health conditions.

2. Motivation
Poor mental strength saps our energy and motivation. We feel like no matter what we try to do, bad things happen and nothing ever works out. 

On the other hand, people who are mentally strong have a high internal locus of control. That means that they believe that they have control over their circumstances. That sense of control motivates them to keep trying, growing, and looking for solutions. Resilient people don’t give up easily. 

Mental strength also brings the discipline and intrinsic motivation needed to prevent procrastinating. People that are mentally tough have an easier time getting started and completing tasks.

3. Discretion
Part of being successful in life is knowing what to listen to — and what not to listen to. It’s easy to get thrown off by both internal and external criticism. When you develop mental toughness, it becomes much easier to stay focused, even when people disagree with you or you feel scared.

Discretion is also key to developing self-awareness, and in turn, emotional regulation skills. As you learn to sit with your negative emotions, you’ll develop a greater tolerance for them. Over time, you’ll learn which emotions are worth engaging with and which ones to just let go of.

4. Courage 
When we feel mentally strong, we’re less afraid of failure. Even if we’re worried about the potential outcome, it’s easier for us to shift into problem-solving mode. Our self-belief is higher, so we feel more confident about our ability to find solutions. More importantly, we feel certain that we can survive the worst-case scenario (if it does come to pass).

5. Adaptability
Developing our ability to look for solutions makes us more agile and adaptable. We spend less time dwelling on what’s not going well and more time focused on how we can achieve the desired outcome. We’re also open to the idea that there might be more than one path, solution, or result that indicates success. We don’t get attached to having everything go exactly our way, because we’re not afraid of change.
